README.md, before:

# CarND_LaneLines
_Finding Lane Lines :: Udacity - Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree_

## The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road
* Reflect on your work in a written report

### Reflection

### 1. Describe your pipeline. As part of the description, explain how you modified the draw_lines() function.

There are 6 steps in my lane finding pipeline. I will use the following camera image as an example to illustrate how the pipeline works.  
_An example of a camera image is shown in below:_  
![alt text][image0]

1. Converted the camera images to grayscale.  
![alt text][image1]

2. Apply Gaussian blur to reduce noise.  
![alt text][image2]

3. Use Canny Edge Detector to extract edge information.  
![alt text][image3]

4. Select region of interest for lane finding task.  
![alt text][image4]

5. Perform Hough Transform to find lane lines on the road.  
    - line segments  
![alt text][image5s]
    - full extent of lane lines  
![alt text][image5]

6. Mark the camera image with the lane lines detected in previous steps.  
    - line segments  
![alt text][image6s]
    - full extent of lane lines  
![alt text][image6]

In Step 5 above, in order to draw a single line on the left and right lanes, I modified the **_draw_lines()_** function to perform the following operations:
* **filter** - select sensible lines by checking its slope and the difference to the current averaged slope
* **average** - only valid line slopes and intercepts are weight averaged
* **extrapolate** - estimate the full extent of lane lines using the averaged slopes and intercepts with in the region of interest

### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline

* the region of interest used is a fixed one, this may not work well when the camera mounting point changed, or when the road ahead is not flat
* the slope calculation may not work well when the lane line on the image is vertical
* linear extropolation on the lane lines may not work well on the curve lanes
* simple grayscale processing may not work well when there are shades on the road or under certain lighting conditions

### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

* explore other color space in pre-processing to extract lane information when there are shades on the road
* update line extrapolation code to make it work better with curve lane lines

[//]: # (Image References)

[image0]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/0_camera_image.jpg "Camera"
[image1]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/1_grayscale_image.jpg "Grayscale"
[image2]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/2_noise_reduced_image.jpg "Gaussian"
[image3]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/3_edge_detected_image.jpg "Canny"
[image4]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/4_region_selected_image.jpg "Region"
[image5]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/5_lane_line_image.jpg "Hough"
[image6]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/6_lane_marked_image.jpg "Marked"

[image5s]: ./writeup_images_output/segment/5_lane_line_image.jpg "Hough_s"
[image6s]: ./writeup_images_output/segment/6_lane_marked_image.jpg "Marked_s"

Commit message:

add Binder for Jupyter notebook

README.md, after:

# CarND_LaneLines
## _Finding Lane Lines :: Udacity - Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree_

Start working online now by clicking the binder badge below:  

[![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge.svg)](https://beta.mybinder.org/v2/gh/bitsurgeon/CarND_LaneLines/master)  

### The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road
* Reflect on your work in a written report

### Reflection

### 1. Describe your pipeline. As part of the description, explain how you modified the draw_lines() function.

There are 6 steps in my lane finding pipeline. I will use the following camera image as an example to illustrate how the pipeline works.  
_An example of a camera image is shown in below:_  
![alt text][image0]

1. Converted the camera images to grayscale.  
![alt text][image1]

2. Apply Gaussian blur to reduce noise.  
![alt text][image2]

3. Use Canny Edge Detector to extract edge information.  
![alt text][image3]

4. Select region of interest for lane finding task.  
![alt text][image4]

5. Perform Hough Transform to find lane lines on the road.  
    - line segments  
![alt text][image5s]
    - full extent of lane lines  
![alt text][image5]

6. Mark the camera image with the lane lines detected in previous steps.  
    - line segments  
![alt text][image6s]
    - full extent of lane lines  
![alt text][image6]

In Step 5 above, in order to draw a single line on the left and right lanes, I modified the **_draw_lines()_** function to perform the following operations:
* **filter** - select sensible lines by checking its slope and the difference to the current averaged slope
* **average** - only valid line slopes and intercepts are weight averaged
* **extrapolate** - estimate the full extent of lane lines using the averaged slopes and intercepts with in the region of interest

### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline

* the region of interest used is a fixed one, this may not work well when the camera mounting point changed, or when the road ahead is not flat
* the slope calculation may not work well when the lane line on the image is vertical
* linear extropolation on the lane lines may not work well on the curve lanes
* simple grayscale processing may not work well when there are shades on the road or under certain lighting conditions

### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

* explore other color space in pre-processing to extract lane information when there are shades on the road
* update line extrapolation code to make it work better with curve lane lines

[//]: # (Image References)

[image0]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/0_camera_image.jpg "Camera"
[image1]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/1_grayscale_image.jpg "Grayscale"
[image2]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/2_noise_reduced_image.jpg "Gaussian"
[image3]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/3_edge_detected_image.jpg "Canny"
[image4]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/4_region_selected_image.jpg "Region"
[image5]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/5_lane_line_image.jpg "Hough"
[image6]: ./writeup_images_output/extrapolate/6_lane_marked_image.jpg "Marked"

[image5s]: ./writeup_images_output/segment/5_lane_line_image.jpg "Hough_s"
[image6s]: ./writeup_images_output/segment/6_lane_marked_image.jpg "Marked_s"
